# Python Markdown Manager

This project aims to create a python tool to organize a single folder full markdown files. This should allow the user to create all their markdown notes, blog posts, readmes, ect inside of a single directory on their computer.

Each note contains a simple, optional config text at the bottom of the file. This config text, along with the passed cli options, informs the python markdown manager on how to handle that specific markdown file.


## Architecture

I see this the python markdown manager tool as a combination of several smaller tools. My goal is to make smallish self contained python scripts for each distinct function, as well as a few extra scripts for functions that may be useful to more then one of the tools.

The top level `pmm.py` tool contains functionality supported by the following sub-tools:

1. `format_md.py`: Pre-process a markdown file before converting to html.
1. `md2html.py`: Convert the markdown into html.
1. `format_html.py`: Post-process the generated html file.
1. `multi_md2html.py`: Run the first 3 scripts on an entire folder of markdown files.
1. `site_gen.py`: Move specially tagged html files into separate directories.

Each of these sub-tools can also be run independently from the command line.

## format_md.py

This tool takes the following inputs:

    1. A file path to a single existing markdown file. 

The tool will optionally perform the following formatting changes on the passed markdown file.

    1. Auto-numbering of figures, tables, and equations
    1. Replace markdown links with html links
    1. (?-separate script) Add a TOC (future feature) 
    1. (?-separate script) Add a Bibliography (future feature)

In the future I want to think of some way to only reformat a markdown file that has actually changed. For now I will just reformat all my notes, but this won't scale as well to large note folders.

## md2html.py

This is the heavy lifter of the whole project. This script takes in the following as cli inputs:

    1. A file path to a single existing markdown file. 
    2. An existing directory to save the output html file.

The script outputs an html file that is saved to the passed directory with the same base-name as the input markdown file.

The markdown file can have an optional config string placed at the bottom of the file. For now I am still ironing out the details of all the config options, but I should write up a section explaining what is available once I settle on a working solution.

### md2html.py features

The markdown to html conversion should support the following features for all conversions

    1. Basic Markdown syntax for Heading, bold text, italic, links, ect. All the stuff supported by default in the python markdown package with no plugins
    1. Code Blocks
    1. Tables

It should also optionally support these features. The features on this list should be optional on a per-markdown file basis. They can be enabled or disabled in the previously mentioned config string at the bottom of each markdown file.

    1. Latex Math inline and block support 
    1. Mermaid Diagram support 
    

## multi_md2html.py

This script takes the following inputs:

    1. An existing directory with a collection of markdown files. 
    2. An existing directory to save the output html files.

It converts all the markdown files in the passed directory into html files saved int eh passed html directory. The conversions will all be done with the `md2html.py` script.

## format_html.py

The purpose of this script is to perform post-processing on the html file generated by the `md2html.py` script.

This script takes the following inputs:

    1. A file path to a single existing html file. 

The tool will optionally perform the following formatting changes on the passed html file

    1. Replacing all the links to markdown files with relative links to their corresponding html files. If there is no relative link to an html file of the same name, just keep the markdown file link.

I may want to make this script responsible for adding the appropriate html header to the file. For now `md2html` handles this, so I'll just leave it that way since it is already working. 

## site_gen.py

This script takes the following inputs:
    
    1. An existing directory with a collection of markdown files. 

It should search though the markdown files in the passed directory looking for files whose config strings have the following:

    - `website_directory`: `/path/to/the/sites/html/folder`
    - `website_publish`: (0 or 1)

If a valid `website_directory` is provided and the `website_publish` options is set to 1, then this script will use the `md2html.py` script to create an html file in the passed `website_directory`.


## misc ideas

- `project_readme_path`: copy this markdown file into a specific directory as a README.md file. I suggest you name the markdown file as `project_name_README.md` in the monolithic markdown folder.
- `remove_configs.py`: another sub-tool that copies all the markdown files into a new directory, but removes all the custom config stuff. This way I can move away from my custom tool and into something like Obsideon at any time.
